.TH LOLCAT 6 "April 4, 2019"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
lolcat \- rainbow coloring effect for text console display

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lolcat
.RI [ options ] " " [ files ] " " ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B lolcat
command.
.PP
\fBlolcat\fP is a program that concatenates files, or standard input, to
standard output (like the generic \fBcat\fP), and adds rainbow coloring to it.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-p\fP \fIX\fP, \fB\-\-spread=\fIX\fP
Inclination of the rainbow stripes
.br
(character widths per line hight; high values (>1000) give almost horizonal stripes, low values (0.1) almost vertical ones; default: 3.0).
.TP
\fB\-F\fP \fIX\fP, \fB\-\-freq=\fIX\fP
Frequency of the rainbow effect.
.br
(low values around 0.0001 give almost monochromous screens; default: 0.1).
.TP
\fB\-S\fP \fIX\fP, \fB\-\-seed=\fIX\fP
Initial value for the random number generator; 0 means automatic.
.br
(default: 0).
.TP
\fB\-a\fP, \fB\-\-animate\fP
Fade every line through an animation before printing the next one.
.TP
\fB\-d\fP \fIX\fP, \fB\-\-duration=\fIX\fP
Duration of the animation.
.br
(number of steps before showing next line; default: 12)
.TP
\fB\-s\fP \fIX\fP, \fB\-\-speed=\fIX\fP
Speed of the animation.
.br
(frame rate, ie. number of steps per second; default: 20)
.TP
\fB\-i\fP, \fB\-\-invert\fP
Inverts the background and foreground colors.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP, \fB\-\-truecolor\fP
Enables 24-bit truecolor mode.
.TP
\fB\-n\fP, \fB\-\-number\fP
Number all output lines
.TP
\fB\-f\fP, \fB\-\-force\fP
Force color even when stdout is not a tty.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Shows lolcat version.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Shows options summary.

.SH EXAMPLES

Typical combinations of \fBlolcat\fP include other programs that generate text:
.br
.br
Large colorful words can be written like this:

.IP
.EX
echo "KTHXBAI" | toilet | lolcat
.EE
.
.P

Cows are popular, come in all colors, and tell random epigrams:

.IP
.EX
fortune | cowsay | lolcat \-a
.EE
.
.P

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cat (1),
.BR toilet (1),
.BR fortune (6),
.BR cowsay (6)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
lolcat was written by Moe <moe@busyloop.net>.
.PP
This manual page was originally written by chrysn <chrysn@fsfe.org>,
for the Debian project.
.br
Very quickly revamped by Mathieu Aubin <mathieu@zeroserieux.com> to
include as part of official code repository.
